Support for configurable `public` directory outside Volto using `volto.config.js` (#6072)
plone/volto: docs/source/addons/public-folder.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Add-on public folder"
    "property=og:description": "How to add static served files to the build from an add-on"
    "property=og:title": "Define static served files"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, Semantic UI, CSS, Volto theme"
---

# Add-on `public` folder

> In the Volto build, some static files are added to the build, and then served along with the build files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Volto build process, you can add static files to your build, then serve them along with the compiled files.
```

> These files are not touched, nor transformed by the build, served as-it-is in the root of the Volto site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Static files are not transformed or compiled by the build process.
They are served as is from the root of the Volto site.
```

> It is useful to define files like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is useful to define static files such as the following:
```

> - robots.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   {file}`robots.txt`
```

> - favicon files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   favicon files
```

> - manifest files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   manifest files
-   any other static files
```

> and other files alike.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Define a `public` folder in an add-on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Procedure to include static files
```

> Create a `public` folder in you add-on if it's not created yet, and add there the files you want to end up to the `public` folder build.

Reviewer: I guessed the location, please verify.

```suggestion
Create a folder named `public` at the root of your add-on, and add the static files to it.
```

> The build will copy over the files taking into account the add-ons defined order, being the first one the default static files defined by Volto, then following the add-on order, will copy the files, so the last one defined will win.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build process will copy the files, taking into account all add-ons' defined order.
The build process copies first the static files defined by Volto, then the static files from add-ons as defined by their configuration order.
The last defined file overwrites any previously defined files.
```
